("The Call of Spring")
♪ Now the mist has cleared
♪ As day is dawning
♪ It's all becoming
clearer to me ♪
♪ The seasons change
♪ As I change with them
♪ And the call of spring
♪ Gives me strength
♪ And courage to know
♪ I will make it through
♪ Whatever life throws at me
♪ Summer's sweet scent
♪ Autumn's whisper
♪ Winter stings with the cold
♪ When trouble comes
rolling in like thunder ♪
♪ Tears may fall
♪ Fear may call
♪ But with spring in my heart
♪ When seasons change
♪ I'll change with them
♪ And I know I can
weather the storm ♪
(soft music)
- [Narrator] Exploring the
forest for the first time,
Ronja learned that
it's not only fun,
but it can also be
a frightening place.
Not all creatures were gentle.
Lovis taught her
not to be afraid,
but that takes practice.
Mattis came to her rescue
and soon Ronja grew to
be afraid of nothing.
(soft music)
(birds squawking)
(Ronja grunting)
(Ronja breathing heavily)
- I'll be back
tomorrow, my forest.
Wait for me.
Welcome home.
(Ronja giggling)
- Hey Ronja, have you
seen what we've got?
- Wow, look at all
the stuff you found.
- And the soldiers
that got in our way
we sent them packing, right?
- Sure.
- Why would they
get in your way?
You didn't do anything wrong.
- Well it's because...
- Yeah, it's because of the...
- Ronja, why does it
rain in the springtime?
- It's natural that it rains
but I've never given
it any thought.
- Then why do Harpies
attack people?
- That's the way they are.
Can't stop the rain
or the Harpies.
- Well, it's the same for us.
Borka's Robbers always
try to snatch what's ours,
and the soldiers will
always try to fight us.
That's just the way it is.
- I understand.
- [Fjosok] I knew you would.
- [Ronja] Yep.
- [Lill-Klippen] That's
right it's like the rain.
- [Sturkas] And the Harpies,
Very clever, Fjosok.
(men laughing)
(soft music)
- Do you feel bad for
that scoundrel Borka?
I almost feel sorry for him.
- Why?
- The soldiers in the forest
they will never give up
trying to hunt him down.
- It's only a matter of
time before they smoke
Borka out of his den.
- I still haven't even
seen a single Borka Robber.
- You're lucky then.
- Yeah who wants
to see one of them.
- They're all a bunch
of dirty devils.
I can't wait for
Borka to get caught.
On the other hand...
- Don't be soft.
That scoundrel wouldn't
be any nicer to us
if it was the other way around.
- Yeah.
- That's right.
- They all stink.
- Down with Borka's men.
(Ronja giggling)
- Well, I'm lucky that
I'm Mattis' daughter.
Borka's Robbers are a
bunch of dirty devils,
so I'm proud to be with all
of you in the Mattis clan.
- That's too, too sweet.
- And we'd do anything
for you, Ronja.
- We'd die for Ronja.
- Yeah and we felt that way
ever since the
night she was born.
- My daughter
arrived with a bang.
I'll never forget that night.
The storm was so
loud with lightning
that split our castle in two.
(Ronja giggling)
- That story again.
- It's always that one
especially when he's
had a bit to drink.
- Ronja, can you remember
what I warned you about?
- Be careful not to
fall into Hell's Gap
no matter what I do.
- Of course.
Even with Hell's Gap this fort
is safer than any fox's den.
I pity the soldiers
who dare to come here.
- If they do they'll
be blown out to sea.
(Noddle-Pete grunting)
(Noddle-Pete farting loudly)
(everyone laughing loudly)
- No one can get up here.
We're on a cliff.
- He's right you know.
It's impossible to climb.
- There's sheer
cliffs all around.
- You're right.
- They'll never get up here.
- Let them try and
get past Wolf Valley.
(wind whistling softly)
Release.
(man grunting)
(Tjorm grunting)
(soldiers coughing)
- [Knotas] One, two, three...
- [Robber] One, two, and...
(soldiers screaming)
- You got away with
your lives this time.
Keep away from Mattis' fort.
You'll regret it if you
ever set foot in here again.
- That's right.
Out of our fort.
(bones cracking)
(Noddle-Pete groaning)
- Noddle-Pete, what's
wrong with you?
- Well, I make weird
noises when I get up.
I'm just getting a bit old.
Once upon a time I could catch
anything in Mattis' forest.
Oh, got it.
That was a long time ago.
Now all I catch is fleas.
- And that's time
for bed, Ronja.
- [Ronja] Good night.
(Noddle-Pete groaning)
- I'm off as well.
(men yawning)
- I can't wait for bed.
- Here let me help you.
(bones cracking)
- Feels great now (laughing).
- Pelje, could you
take out some leftovers
to Joen and Knotas?
- [Pelje] Yeah.
- Lill-Klippen, tomorrow
you fetch the water.
- [Lill-Klippen]
(sighing) I know.
♪ Wild wolf please
♪ Leave us be
♪ I know you're prowling
♪ Out from the forest
♪ To come steal from me
♪ I know your pain
♪ Cubs hungry again
♪ But you won't
take mine from me ♪
♪ Wild wolf please
♪ Why don't you feed
♪ On the scraps that I leave
♪ I promise this
♪ If my child you kiss
♪ That's the last thing
(Lovis humming softly)
(birds chirping)
I gave birth to you on
such a stormy night.
Those awful harpies were
circling above the fort.
Now some say that children
born on a night like that
can turn wild and savage.
Anyway, do watch the
skies for harpies?
I don't want you carried off.
- Thanks, I know.
Mattis said they're
the most dangerous
of all the things in the forest.
- Yes, be extra careful,
because the harpies go
from bad to even worse
when the weather turns cold.
(soft music)
(Ronja giggling)
(faint whistling)
(Ronja gasping)
- [Dwarf] Human here,
in Gray Dwarves' wood.
- Be gone, Gray Dwarves!
Be gone!
I'm not afraid of you.
(dwarves breathing heavily)
(soft music)
(Ronja gasping)
(Ronja giggling)
(harpy screeching)
(Ronja yelling)
(dramatic music)
(harpy screeching)
- [Harpy] Pretty little
human. Where is she?
I'll scratch you and
let the blood run.
(harpy screeching)
(Ronja breathing heavily)
(dramatic music)
- [Harpy] Where is the
little human? Where is she?
- [Harpy] Come out and
we'll tear you into pieces.
- Can't say I wasn't
warned about them.
There must be a better way
to practice being brave.
I have an idea.
- I wonder what Ronja's up to.
- Nothing too crazy I hope.
(birds squawking)
(Noddle-Pete laughs loudly)
(Ronja gasping)
(wind whistling)
(birds squawking)
- Hell's Gap.
What was it that Mattis said?
- It's very important.
Now what did I just say?
- To watch out and do not
fall down into Hell's Gap.
(birds squawking)
(wind whistling)
(loud clanking)
Ronja, you can jump this.
No not here it's too far.
I can make it across here.
(loud whistling)
- [Narrator] Ronja
knew that she wasn't
the only child in the world.
But having never
seen another child,
she did believe she was
the only one in the forest.
Her mother Lovis told her there
were two types of children:
those who would turn into
Mattises when they grew big,
and those who would
turn into Lovises.
Ronja herself would
turn into a Lovis.
But she knew that the child on
the other side of Hell's Gap
would turn into a Mattis.
- Hey robber's daughter,
I know you, yes I do.
- Well, I don't know you.
(dramatic music)
- [Narrator] Next time on
Ronja the Robber's Daughter.
"Enemy in the Fort".
Don't miss it.
("The Call Of Spring")